Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another tutorial on this course on Dhruva.
And in this story, we are going to be covering the Ruby file method so you can do other things with
files as well.
Besides reading and writing to a file.
For example, you may want to know if a file exists or to get a list of files for the current directory.
Now, you are going to be using multiple methods in this tutorial.
The first your first function.
We are going to cover in this tutorial is going to be the size function that is going to list the file
size and bytes.
Then we are going to cover the exact function that is going to tell you if a file exists in a current
directory, you are looking for it or not, then you are going to have the method E X, the name and
this E name function is also going to check if it is going to get you the file extension and this is
going to work even if the file does not exist.
Then you are going to go to the function based name that is going to get the file name without the directory
part, then you are going to cover that the real name function as it is indicated by its name, it is
going to get the part for the file without the file name.
And we are also going to cover some a lot about the directories as well.
So you are going to see that our method in this, we are going to instead of using the file dot, which
we have been covering so far, we are going to use the DCI are we are going to use the directory options
more where we are also going to have other things that includes the file as.
So this is going to be a very informative tutorial.
You are going to learn a lot of functions and you are going to see a lot of things which you can do
to a file besides reading, writing, opening and closing applied.
So to start on with, the first one we are going to cover in this tutorial is the site's function.
So for that, what do you have to do is that you have to just go and use the file dot size and in the
brackets you are going to specify the name of the file.
So you know that we have already got these two files.
The first one is rhenium and then we have the file writing a file on him.
So we are going to see.
The size for these fires, so we are going to write as renamed Oakhill, and we also need to specify
door to deal with this and run this code.
As you can see that it is brand perfectly.
All we need to do is that we have to store it in a variable that's the land.
Or you can just use any other name you want to and downhill.
What you can do is that you can just print out the land on this code and it says the size of the fire
is zero because I guess there is nothing in this file for now.
So that's why the length of the file for now is zero.
Then you can also see that if a file exists or not.
So for that you can use the exist function so you can just use file dot exists.
You're going to you have to specify a question mark because whenever you are asking the editor a question,
you have to specify this with that function.
So we are going to, let's say, check for renamed DOT again.
So we will again store it in a variable, let's say X this time.
And down here we are going to write inputs X run this code and you can see that it is true because the
file is right in the directory you are working.
And if you just change the name, let's say just remove this and from here, run this now and you can
see that it is going to generate files because renamed not no file like this exist in the directory
we are working in.
The next function we are going to cover is the X name that is going to get the file extension and this
function is even going to work at the file does not exist.
So we will just remove this from here.
We are going to write an X equal to file dot, e x name and in here we are going to write in the name
of the file that is, let's say, renamed the city.
And down here we are going to write in quotes X, run this code and you can see that it has generated
the extension that is Dorthe.
So this function basically generates the file extension for you.
The next function is the best name function that is going to get the file name without the directory.
But so what you are going to do is that you are going to.
Right, and X equal to file dot based name.
And in the perimeter, what you are going to do is that you are going to write in the name of the file,
let's say renamed DOT the X de.
All right, inputs X to run this code, and you can see that you have got the filename along with the
extension as well, so it says renamed.
The next function we are going to cover is the name that stands for Directory Name, and it is going
to get the part for the file without the file name.
So if you just write in X equal to.
File dot.
These are name.
Rename DOT, the XDA.
Right, inputs x this, Scott, you're going to see that you have got this dot operator and this dot
operator basically means that it is referring to the current directory you are working at.
So the next function is the directory function, and it is going to check if this is actually a file
or a directory, in our case, this our file, so you don't have to run these.
So one more function we always have to use are basically the directory options.
Now, whatever you have been covering so far in this section was basically related with this file object
or help.
The next O'Haire you can use are basically correct three options and that goes on with the word D.C.I
are.
So when are we are going to use this?
Now, there are specific functions that are associated with it using the DVR globe, you can get a list
of all the files that matches a certain pattern.
So, for example, if you just remove this from here and what are you going to do is that you are going
to just remove this from here and you are going to write in.
These are will the.
And what are you going to do is that you are going to let us specify a story.
Go ahead, run this code.
And you can see that it has got all the names that basically exist with some extensions, so it is it
has got every folder that is actually a part of this current working directory we are working in now.
For now, you can see that you have got to find over here.
This is because I have hidden the rest of the files so that you don't get confused with all that stuff
with these files over here.
So that's what you are seeing.
No files over here.
But here you are seeing a lot of files.
That's why because I have written I have just hidden the rest of the files here.
You can see your files that are renamed.
And where is the second one?
Here it is.
It is file writing data.
So you have got your two files.
The rest files are basically the hidden files, which it is showing right now.
Then you can also specify.
SPDC over here on this code, and you can see that nothing has been generated because nothing is specified
with this name.
So if you're just writing, let's say, renamed the here on this code.
And it is still generating nothing because all the files containing this are not going to get visible
now, it should have because we have specified this.
We have specified, not specified the star here as well.
Run this now and now you have got this.
If you enclose the characters and these are just again encoded between these Derickson.
So it is going to show all the places that have these or have you just right in, let's say.
Named O'Haire underscored it is still going to show renamed the city because it is going to show all
the flights that have these characters in a series in its rhenium, has a named in series in it, as
you can see.
So that's why rename the is going to get busy.
But then you can also show the flyers with respect to their extensions.
So if you just remove this from here, a single starick and just write in dot the city on this and you
are going to get all the files that have the extension.
For now, we have got only two files while writing the DST and renamed the city that are going to get
visible right here.
So using the DVR at the last, it's also possible to print the current working directory for that,
what you have to write is that you have to write in order to W.D. or underscore, and you are going
to get the current working directory that is a C folder user as a marathon.
And then documents, as you can see right over here as well.
You are working in this book, then you are working in the documents folder.
So I hope it is clear then you can also check if a directory is empty or not or if some folders are
present in it.
So for that, what do you have to do is that you have to check it using the empty function.
Right.
A question mark.
And inside here, what you can do is that you can specify backslash DMV, run this and all right, we
have got some error.
It says an empty no such file or directory.
You don't have to.
So let's just remove this from here.
Run this.
All right, it says it is expecting an argument, so let's give it one.
Run this now.
Daughter, the missing.
Here, I guess, around us now, and it is going to generate us because we are checking if this directory
we are working is is empty of whatever we haven't done over here since.
It is not because we know that such file exists.
So that's why it has generated false hope here.
Then you can also create a new directory using the Iowa here for that, where you have to do is that
you can just write an.
I'm the I r that stands for MYG Directory and in the brackets O'Haire, you can specify any directory
you want to create so you can just write in the name of the directory and that is going to get created
for you.
Then you can also create a temporary directory with the M dp dmp dya that is emptied.
Then it's it, it has this DMP that stands for a temporary and then the IRR for the directory and you
can just create a temporary directory with that as well.
And that directory is basically going to be enclosed in some kind of a block so that when that block
exists the directory is going to get finished.
Then in four hours, you can also have defiles as modules, there are some extra file handling utilities
you can get access to within the file utils module, for example, you can compare files, you can touch
a file that is to update the last access and modification time, or you can just copy files and directory
with a CPR method.
So for that, what do you have to do is that you have to just remove this from here.
And hear what you have to write and you have to write and require you have to write and file.
You let's run this to see if it works perfectly.
Yes, it has now required fight while Diaz.
Now you can use it down here.
You can just try it and find Udai else.
And it works the same as the directory and the file works.
And with it you can use the functions.
That is, let's say if you want to compare to files, you can just try and compare, underscore file
and it accepts two parameters.
The first one is going to be the first one.
The second one is going to give the second five, which are going to get compared.
So we are going to, let's say, iterate and rename the SD.
And the second file we have right over here is the file writing, Dorte, so the second argument is
going to be file.
Riding around the school to see if it works, yes, it does.
Now, what do you have to do is that you have to store it and variable, let's say X.
And down here, we are going to ride in Boats X around this.
And it says false, which means that these two fires were not equal to each other, they were not equal
because you know, that one file contains the data that was HelloWallet, I guess, which we had stored
in the previous tutorial.
And the other file is basically empty.
It contains nothing.
So that's what it is going to compare the files with respect to the number of bytes, which means the
file size.
So they are not equal than what it is going to do is that it is going to return false.
But if both the files are the same amount of data, it is the same in the number of bodies in this function
over here is going to generate.
True.
Then you can also judge a file, which means that you can update the last access and modification time
for that.
But you have to do is just right.
And Dodgeville Hill.
And in the parameters you have to write in the name of the directory for which you want to change the
change or update the success and modification time, and you can also use the CPR method that is basically
used to copy files and directories.
And that is used in a way, with this faludi's and if the right and c.B underscore are and in these
parameters where you have to do is that you have to write in the name of the to fly, the first flight
is going to be the file in which the data is going to get copied.
And the second parameter is going to be the file which contains the data that is going to get copied
into the first file.
And here that are in the CPR basically stands for a recursive over here because it is going to be a
recursive function.
And at every line, one recursion is going to occur and it is going to copy the entire data.
So so far you have learned how to manage files and folders in Ruby using building methods like reading,
writing, and you have understood two other kind of things.
That was the.
Modules, which we have studies, the first module we study was the Pleyel module, then the second
module, which was the desire that stands for the directory module, then the third module we have studied
in this section was the Fylingdales module.
So every module has its own use and its own importance.
Now you can also get information about the file file.
Handling often requires more than just opening files.
Sometimes it is necessary to find out information about the file before it is open.
Fortunately, the file class provides a range of methods for this very purpose.
Now we have covered some of the methods before that are related to file module, but now we are going
to cover more methods that are related to the file module and they are basically going to tell you more
about the file.
So you have already covered the exact function.
The next function we are going to cover is the file function.
Now to find out if the file is really a file as opposed to, for example, a directory uses the file
method.
So what you can do is that you can write and file, don't file a question mark.
And in the parameters you have to write in, for example, if I just write and Rubio will.
Store it in a variable X.
All right, and put Sexo here on the scoreboard, you can see that it has generated for because now
it is saying that it is basically not a file.
If I just write and let's say rename the run this now, you can see that it has generated true because
it is saying that whatever you are searching is basically a file.
That's why it has generated Drew for me.
Similarly, you can find out if it is directory with the directory method and that can also be done
using the IRS.
So I don't need to cover this.
And the next is to identify whether the file is readable, writable or executable.
You can use the readable, readable and executable methods respectively, for example, if you just
remove this from here.
And for example, for this file renamed, what do you want to check, if it is readable, it is writable
or executable than what you can do is that you can use all these three methods.
You can use the readable question mark on it, and you can see that it is generated through, which
means that this file rename the is readable.
Then you can also check if this file is writable or not.
Run this and you can see that again, Drew has been generated, which means that this file is also readable.
Then you can also see that this file is executable or not.
For that, you have another function.
And Ruby, that is XY Q Table.
I hope I have spelled it correct.
Yes, I guess I have.
So no, no I have not.
It is exceedingly perfect.
Run this and it says false, which means that this file is not executable.
Then you can also get the size of the file that you have to use the size function.
Ron, this and zero is generated.
Yes, I guess I covered this before as well.
Then you have and if you want to find if a file is empty and you can do it with a zero method, for
example, if you apply the zero method on this Oakhill renamed the Steve.
Rhonda Scott, you know that it is going to generate true because we know that Brenham is empty, it
contains nothing.
So the zero method is going to return true on it.
Then you can also find out the type of the file with the F type method.
So what you can do is that you can just remove this from here.
You can just write an F type.
And if you just do it for renamed the extreme, run this code, you can see that it says that rhenium
is basically a file and you can also do it like four directories.
You can also do it for blocks, special and other things as well.
Finally, you can find out the creation modification and access times of a file with the seed time and
time and time, respectively.
For example, if I use the time function for this renamed the exterior underscored, you can see that
it is giving me the time when this file was created.
So this file was created on twenty two for twenty twenty at seven forty six.
Twenty one second plus zero five zero zero.
So this was basically the creation time for this renamed to do, which you can get using the time function
and by using the file module then you can also see the modification time as well.
For that you have to just replace the C with M run this.
All right, it has generated, I guess, defriended, that is twenty three for twenty twenty twenty
five.
Forty one.
That is I guess the run time or I guess it is not.
All right.
It is, I guess, the time when this flight was renamed.
I guess.
So then you have this a function that is going to check if a file has been accessed.
So it is going to tell you the time the file was last accessed on this.
And it is going to, again, generate the time, that is the time for which this file was lost access.
So these are the multiple methods that are related to the file module, which you can use to know more
about the file you are working at.
You can know more about the directory using the IRS module and you can have the file utils module for
you, which is always available for you as well.
So these are some of the functions or you can call the methods that can be used with files that are
very, very, very useful.
So I hope you understood all these functions.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial as well.
Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.